# IaC Concepts

## What is Infrastructure as Code (IaC)?
Def: "The process of managing and provisioning computer data centers through machine-readable definition files, rather than physical hardware configuration or interactive configuration tools."

Terraform for IaC provides:
1) Execution plans (describes the planned changes before implementing)
2) Resource graphs (depicts the allocation and overalllocation of each resource for each unit of time)
3) Change automation (Terraform determines what changes during updates and creates incremental execution plans that respect dependencies)

## The Infrastructure Lifecycle
We split the lifecycle into two parts: "Day 0" and "Day 1" activities.

**Day 0** code provisions and configures the initial infrastructure. 

**Day 1** code refers to OS and application configurations applied after the intial infrastructure is built. Day 1 through Day N configurations might leverage tools like Chef, Ansible, Docker, etc. 

## Reliable Infrastructure
IaC keywords: idempotent (the results remain the same even when applied several times), consistent, repeatable, and predictable.

With IaC we can test the code and review the results before the code is applied to the target environments. Thus, the outcome can be predicted before the code is applied to a production environment.

## Benefits of IaC
1) Automation. We can bring up servers with one script and scale up and down based on our load with the same script.

2) Reusability of the code.

3) Versioning. We can check it into version control and get versioning. Thus, we can see an incremental history of who changed what, how the infrastructrure was defined at any given point in time, and we have transparancy.

## Use-cases of Terraform
1) Heroku App Service (a popular PaaS for hosting web apps.)
2) Multi-tier applications (a client-server architecture in which presentation, application processiong and data managament functions are physically separated.)
3) Self-service clusters (libraries of approved infrastructures)
4) Software demoes
5) Disposable environments
6) Software defined networking (an approach to networking that uses software-based controllers or application programming interfaces (APIs) to communicate with underlying hardware infrastructure and directs taffic on a network)
7) Resource schedulers
8) Multi-Cloud deployment

## How can Terraform build infrastructure so quickly?
Terraform builds a graph of all your resources, and parallellizes the creation and modification of any non.dependent resources. Because of this, Terraform builds infrastructure as efficiently as possible, and operators get insight into dependencies in their infrastructure.



