# Terraform's Purpose

## Benefits of Terraform
1) Platform agnostic
2) State management
3) Operator confidence

We will look closer at these.

## Platform and Cloud Agnosticism
**Multi-cloud deployment** is attractive as it is a mean to spread infrastructure across multiple clouds to increase fault tolerance. Terraform handles a single configuration to be used to manage multiple providers and to even handle cross-cloud dependencies. 

## State Management
### What is Terraform State
We create a Terraform **state file** every time we *plan* and *apply* a Terraform configuration which records information about what infrastructure we've created. By default, it is saved in the same folder as the configuration with the filename *terraform.tfstate*. This file is a json file that records a mapping from the Terraform resources in the configuration files to the real-world representation of thos resources.

### What is the purpose of Terraform State?
There are four main uses:
1) Mapping to the real world. As Terraform is cloud-agnostic, it requires a database to map a Terraform config to the real world as every cloud provider has different functionalities.

2) Metadata. Terraform needs to be able to track mappings between resources and remote objects as well as resource dependencies. This is especially important when deleting resources from a Terraform configuration as Terraform must know how to delete that resource. Furthermore, Terraform also stores other metadata for similar reasons, such as a pointer to the provider configuration that was most recently used with the resource in situations where multiple aliased providers are present.

3) Performance. Terraform must know the current state of resources in order to effenciently determine the changes that it needs to make to reach the desired configration specified with *terraform plan*. For larger infrastructures, querying ever resource is inefficient, so Terraform stores a cache of the attribute values for all resources in the state. This is an optional feature as it is only done as a performance improvement. Notice that larger users of Terraform make heacy use of *-refresh=false* flag as well as the *-target* flag in order to work around this.

4) Syncing. In the default configuration, Terraform stores the state in a file in the current working directory where Terraform was run. For team-work, a remote state is recommended, as with a fully featured state backend, Terraform can use remote locking as a measure to avoid two or more different users accidentally running Terraform at the same time, and thus esuring that each Terraform run begins with the most recent updated state.

## Operator Confidence
The workflow built into Terraform aaims to instill confidence in users by promoting easily repeatable operations and a planning phase to allow users the actions taken by Terraform will not cause disruption in their environment. Upon *terraform apply*, the user will be prompted to review the proposed changes and must affirm the changes, or else Terraform will not apply the proposed plan.

