# Understand Terraform Basics

## Handling Terraform installation and versioning

### Installing Terraform on different OS'
Mac: *brew install terraform*

Windows: *choco install terraform*

Manually: First download the zip file, then *mv ~/Downloads/terraform /usr/local/bin/terraform*

### Configuring Terraform
We use a terraform configuration block type to configure behaviors of Terraform itself, such as requiring a minimum version of Terraform to apply the configuration. Ex: 

```
terraform {
    # ...
}
```

Furthermore, there are three values often specified in a terraform block: *backend*, *required_version*, and *required_providers*. Examples given below:

```
terraform {
    required_version = "~> 0.14"
    required_providers {
        aws = {
            version = ">= 2.7.0"
            source = "hashicorp/aws"
        }
    }
}
```

```
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 3.27"
    }
  }
  backend "remote" {
      organization = "ellafj_tutorial"
      workspaces {
          name = "Example-Workspace"
      }
  }
}
```

NB! Only constants are allowed inside the terraform block! Arguments may not refer to names objects such as resources, input variables, etc, and may not use any of the Terraform language built-in functions. 

### Experimental language features
Sometimes the Terraform team introduces new language features initially via an opt-in experiment. These are added as such

```
terraform {
    experiments = [example]
}
```

where we have opted in to an experiment named *example*. When using such features, a warning will be generated each time `terraform plan` or `terraform apply` is run. 

## Handling provider installation and versioning

### What is a "provider"?
A provider is a logical abstraction of an upstream API. They are responsible for understanding API interactions and exposing resources. Examples are public clod services such as AWS, GCP, or Azure, or a PaaS service as Heroku, a SaaS service as DNSimple or CloudFare, or on-orem resources such as vSphere. All providers integrate into and operate with Terraform exactly the same way. Because Terraform can interact with any API, you can respresent almost any infrasructure type as a resource in Terraform. 

### Provider configuration
The name given in the block header is the name of the provider to configure ("google" in the example below). Terraform associates each resource type with a provider by taking the first word of the resource type name separated by underscores, and so the "google" provider is assumed to be the provider for the resource group name *google_compute_instance_*.

The body of the block contains configuration arguments for the provider itself. Most arguments in this sections are specified by the provider itself. In this example, both proect and region are specific to the google provider. 

```
provider "google" {
    project = "acme-app"
    region = "us-central1"
}
```

Note that unlike many other objects in the Terraform language, a provider block may be omitted if its contents would be otherwise be empty. Terraform assumes an empty default configuration for any provider that is not explicitly configured. 

If we wish to constrain a provider version, we add a `required_providers` block inside a terraform block as specified earlier. Ex:

```
terraform {
    required_providers {
        aws = "~> 1.0"
    }
}
```

We could alternatively specify it within a provider block as such:

```
provider {
    version = "1.0"
}
```

### Meta-arguments defined by Terraform
Terraform has some defined meta-arguments defined which are available for all provider blocks. They are:
1) **version**: Constraining the allowed provider versions
2) **alias**: Using the same provider with different configurations for different resources. This is used for mluyiple provider configurations. More on this below.

#### The *alias* argument
To create multiple configurations for a given provider, we use the alia smeta-argument to provide an extra name segment. 

```
# The default provider configuration, referenced as _aws_
provider "aws" {
    region = "us-east-1"
}

# The additional provider configuration, referenced as _aws.west_
provider "aws" {
    alias = "west"
    region = "us-west-2"
}
```

Furthermore, to use a configuration alias within a module in order to receive an alternate provider configuration from the parent module, we use the `configuration_aliases` argument to that provider's `required_providers` entry as such

```
terraform {
    required_providers {
        mycloud = {
            source = "mycorp/mycloud"
            version = "~> 1.0"
            comfiguration_aliases = [ mycloud.alternate ]
        }
    }
}
```
This example declares both the `mycloud` and `mycloud.alternate` provider configuration names withing the module.

Rememeber that by default, resources use the default provider configuration inferred from the first word of the resource type name. To use an alternate provider configuration for a resource or data source, do as such 

```
resource "aws_instance" "foo" {
    provider = aws.west
    # ...
}
```

To select alternate provider configurations for a child module, we write

```
module "aws_vpc" {
    source = "./aws_vpc"
    providers = {
        aws = aws.west
    }
}
```

### Provider initializations
Every time a provider is added to the configuration, we must run `terraform init` to download and install th eprovider's plugin so that it can laer be executed. 

Note that `terraform init` only installs the providers for the current working directory as other directories can have their own installed provider versions. NB: the initialization cannot automatically download providers that are not distributed by HashiCorp (third-party providers). These would have to be installed manually. When done, `terraform init` can initialize it normally. You must however run this command from the directory where the configuration files are stored. 

### Upgrading provider
If we wish to upgrade the provider to the latest acceptable version we use the command 

```
terraform init --upgrade
```

It also upgrades to the latest versions of all Terraform modules.

## Describe plug-in based architecture

### Location of user plugins directory
Windows: `%APPDATA%\terraform.d\plugins

All other systems: ~/.terraform.d/plugins

### Naming conventions of provider plugins
`terraform-provider-<NAME>_vX.Y.Z`

### CLI configuration files
CLI = Command Line Interface
The CLI ocnfiguration file configures per-user setting for CLI behaviours, which apply across all Terraform working directories. On Windows, the file must be names `terraform.rc` and is placed in the relevant user's **%APPDATA%** directory. On all other systems, the file is named `.terraformrc` and placed directly in the home directory of the relevant user. The location of the Terraform CLI configuration file can also be specified using the `TF_CLI_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable. 

### Provider plugin cache
When we have multiple configurations that use the same provider (see `alias`), `terraform init` will download the plugins for each configuration. Therefore, Terraform optionally allow the use of a local directory as a shared plugin cache, which then allows each distinct plugin binary to be downloaded only once. 

To enable the plugin cache, we use the `plugin_cache_dir` setting in the CLI configuration file. 

```
plugin_cache_dir = "$HOME/.terraform.d/plugin-cache"
```

Alternatively, the `TF_PLUGIN_CACHE_DIR` environment variable van be used to enable caching or to override an existing cache directory within a particular shell session. 

### Cleaning the cache directory
By using plugin cache, one ends up with a growing cache directory with different version that the **user** must clean. Terraform will never itself delete a plugin from the plugin cache once it has been placed there. Over time, as plugins are upgraded, the cache directory may grow to contain several unused versions which must be manually deleted. 




