# Using the Terraform CLI (Outside of Core Workflow)

## `terraform fmt`
The `terraform fmt` command is used to rewrite Terraform configuration files to a canonical format and style. It will output the filenames of any files it modified.

### How to use
The command usage is 

```
terraform fmt [options] [DIR]
```

Furthermore, when formatting configuration files, we use the flag `-diff` as such

```
terraform fmt -diff
```
to see the differences. If we wish to process the subdirectories as well we use

```
terraform fmt -recursive
```
Lastly, if we wish to configure files in many directories but do not want to see the list of file chnges, we should use

```
terraform fmt -list=false
```


### When to use
It is smart to proactively run `terraform fmt` on your modules after upgrading Terraform versions as the canonical format may change in minor ways. This is to ensure that all configurations follow the new versions. 

Note that `terraform fmt` only parses your HCL for interpolation errors or malformed resource definitions, which is why you should use `terraform validate` after formatting your configuration to check you configuration in the context of the provider's expectations. 

## `terraform taint`
The `terraform taint` command informs Terraform that a particular object has become degraded or damaged. This will ensure that Terraform will propose to replace it in the next plan you create. 

### How to use
```
terraform taint [options] address
```

where the address argument is the address of the resource to mark as tainted. The address is in the resource address syntax (`[module path][resource spec]`)

However, if your intent is to force replacement of a particular object even though there are no configuration changes that would require it, it is instead recommended to use the `-replace` option with `terraform apply` as such 

```
terraform apply -replace="aws_instance.example[0]
```

The `replace` option is often superior to `taint` as it allows you to see the full effect of that change before you take an externally-visible action. When you use `terraform taint` for the same effect, you risk someone else on your team creating a new plan against your tainted object before you have has a change to review the consequenses of that change yourself. 

If you wish to manually taint a resource we use 

```
terraform taint resource.id`
```

The taint command will not modify the infrastructure, but does modify the state file in order to mark a resource as tainted. Once a resource is marked as tainted, the next plan will show that the resource will be destroyed and recreated and the next apply will implement this change. 

## `terraform import`
The `terraform import` command is used to import existing resources into Terraform.- Terraform is able to import existing infrastructure. This allows you to take resources you have created by some other means and bring it under Terraform manageent. This is a great way to slowly transition infrastructure into Terraform, or to be able to be confident that you can use Terraform in the future if it potentially does not support every feature you need today.

### How to use

```
terraform import [options] ADDRESS ID
```

Import will find the existing resource from ID and import it into your Terraform state at the given ADDRESS (a valid resource address).