# Implement and maintain state

## Backends
Each Terraform workspace has an associated backend that defines how operatopns are executed and where persisten data such as the Terraform state are stored. Certain backends support multiple named workspaces, allowing multiple states to be associated with a single configuration.

A local backend stores state on the local filesystem, locks that state using system APIs, and performs operations locally. The default path to this local backend is `terraform.tfstate` in the root module.

NB! Backends are compleetly **optional**!

## State locking
If supported by the backend, Terraform will lock your state for all operations that could write state. This prevents others from aquiring the lock and potentially corrupting your state. STate locking happends automatically on all operations that could write state. You will not see any message that this is happening. If state locking fials, Terraform will not continue. 

You can disable state locking with the -lock flag, but it is not recommended. 

## Moving from remote state to local
To do this you remove the backend configuration block from your configuration and run `terraform init` again. Terraform will ask if you want to migrate your state back to local.

## The `refresh` command
The `terraform refresh` command is used to reconcile the state Terraform know about via its state file with the real-world infrastructure. This can be used oto detect any drift from the last-know state, and to update the state file. 

Rge command does not modify the infrastructure. but does modify the state file. If the state is changed, this may cause changes to occur during the next plan or apply.

## Partial configuration in terms of configuring backends
You do not need to specify every required argument in the backend configuration. Omitting certain arguments may be desirable to avoid storing secrets such as access keys, within the main configuration. When some or all of the arguments are omitted, we call this a partial configuration.

There are three ways to provide the remaining arguments when using this strategy:

1) Interactively, i.e. Terraform will ask you for the required values in the command line.

2) File, i.e. a configuration file may be specified via the init comman line. We use the `-backend-config=PATH` option when running `terraform init`. Of the file contains secrets it may be kept in a secure data store, such as Vault, in whch case it must be downloaded to the local disk before running Terraform.

3) Command-line key/valye pairs. We use the `-backend-config="KEY-VALUE"` option when running `terraform init`. F.eks "`-backend-config="address=demo.consul.io`" or "`-backend-config="path=example_app/terraform_state`".

When using partial configuration, Terraform requires at a minimum that an empty backend configuration is specified in one of the root Terraform configuration files, to specify the backend type.

## Encrypting sensitive data in the state
Terraform Cloud always encrypts state at rest and protects it with TLS in transit.  Terraform Cloud also know the identity of the user requesting state and maintains a history of state changes. This can be used to control access and track activity. 

Terraform Enterprise also supports detailed audit logging. 

The s3 enabled backend supports encryption at rest when the encrypt option is enabled. IAM policies and loffing can be used to identify any invalid access. Request for the state go over a TLS connection.

## Benefits of using Backends

1) Working in a team, as backends can store their state remotely and protects the state with lock to prevent corruption. Some backends like Terraform Cloud even automatically stores a history of all state revisions. 

2) Keeping sensitive information off disk.

3) Remote operations. For larger infrastructures or certain changes, terraform apply can take long, long time. SOme backends support remote operations which enable the operation to execute remotely. You can then turn off your computer and your operation will still complete. Paired with remote state storage and locking above, this also helps in team environments. 

## Workspaces commands
Listing the workspaces: `terraform workspace list`

Create a new workspace: `terraform workspace new <name>`

Show the current workspace: `terraform workspace show`

Switch workspace: `terraform workspace select <workspace name>`

Delete workspace: `terraform delete <workspace name>`

NB! You cannot delete the default workspace.

## Use of workspaces
Workspaces are great when you want to create a parallel, distinct copy of a set of infrastructure in order to test a set of changes before modifying the main production infrastructure.

## When working with workspaces
We access the current workspace in the configuration files through `${terraform.workspaces}`. 

When using workspaces, Terraform saves the state file for the local state in `terraform.tfstate.d`. For rthe remote state, the workspaces are stored directly in the configured backend.

## Renaming resources in a state file

```
terraform state mv 'packet_device.worker' 'packet_device.helper'
```

